---
title: "Drakkenheim Extras: Allies and Enemies"
redirect_to: https://dungeondynamics.wordpress.com/2024/03/09/drakkenheim-extras-allies-and-enemies/
date: 2024-01-16
excerpt: Patrons and Rival Adventuring Parties for Dungeons of Drakkenheim.
toc: true
header:
  teaser: /assets/images/drakkenheim_extras/banner_DE_allies-enemies.webp
categories: 
  - drakkenheim extras
tags:
  - npc
  - adventure
---
This is a collection of NPCs I use in my Dungeons of Drakkenheim campaign.

## Patrons
Dungeons of Drakkenheim already provides plenty of reasons for each PC individually to be travelling to Drakkenheim; and the Road to Drakkenheim provides a mean for the PCs to arrive there all together. The only thing left is: why are the PCs traveling as a party to Drakkenheim? A Patron can be used as a quick and easy solution to explain this.
+ Patrons should not be part of a Faction, although working for a specific Patron could more easily bring the party to the attention of a Faction or vice versa. 
+ Patrons could also act as a “bridge” between the PCs and the people of Emberwood Village; the merchants and faction members in Emberwood probably don’t know the PCs, but they may know their patron (by fame or in person). You can use this kind of connection if you want your party to have a focal point when they first explore Emberwood - a common acquaintance is a good way to break the ice.
+ Patrons could also be the ones directing the players towards the Delerium Hunt starting quest. They could have told the PCs that adventurers are a dime a dozen in Emberwood and that by demonstrating that they can get into the fray and return with their lives and (some) Delerium, they could attract the attention of the local powers. 
+ Each Patron has a specific interest in mind when contracting the players. The PCs are expected to do something for them while in the city - for coin or for other, more noble reasons. Once again, this could be an initial focus for the party, but it should become secondary once the faction play becomes relevant.

These are some example Patrons that you can use in your DoD campaign. You can use the Complications if you want to throw a curveball at your party - you should not reveal these details to them, if that’s the case! 

### Westemari Nobleman
A Westemari noble, they have hired the players to recover something for them from within the City of Drakkenheim. They are ready to pay a small sum in advance and a larger one once the task has been completed.
+ **Complications**: the item they have asked the PCs to recover is one of the Seals of Drakkenheim or one of the Relics of Saint Vitruvio. They have described the item with a certain degree of detail, but they have not shared with the PCs the importance of said item. They believe this item to be rightfully theirs for any number of reasons (heritage, self delusion, etc); or maybe they are flat out lying to the PCs about the nature of the item.
+ **Potential Connections**: someone in the Hooded Lanterns may know this Patron; maybe The Patron may be financing the efforts of the Lanterns.

### Mercantile Guild leader
The leader of a powerful mercantile guild, they have hired the players to recover all the Delerium possible and ship it to them. They are ready to pay a weekly retainer fee plus a bonus based on the amount of Delerium delivered (which should be competitive with whatever price the PCs can get in Emberwood); if the PCs are effective, they can even send them gold to buy Delerium from other adventuring parties.
- **Complications**: the local merchants are unhappy with the PCs undercutting them when it comes to the Delerium trade. The Queen’s Men may target the Delerium deposit or the shipping once they get hold of the traderoute. The Followers of the Falling Fire may be against the PCs removing Delerium from Drakkenheim.
- **Potential Connections**: some of the local merchants (or even someone in the Queen’s Men) may be a commercial partner to the Guild.

### Unbridled Academic
An unaffiliated researcher has contracted the PCs to recover samples of fauna and flora from the mutated lifeforms that inhabit Drakkenheim. They are ready to pay a signup fee and will pay piecemeal for every unique specimen the PCs will recover; they are interested in both flora and fauna; they will pay more the more the specimens are intact. Alive creatures and full plants are what they want most, but they will gladly pay for organs/parts if the specimen has otherwise been damaged.
+ **Complications**: the people of Emberwood may be unhappy with the players dragging monsters into town, especially if they escape. The Silver Order may try to slay the creatures and destroy the other specimens. The Patron may be revealed to be a malfeasant wizard. 
+ **Potential Connections**: someone in the Amethyst Academy may know the Patron’s body of work.

### Westemari Officer / Elyrian Spymaster
Present themselves as a Westemari officer, wants the PC to investigate the Hooded Lanterns and the Queen’s Men for collusion/corruption. Tells the PCs not to reveal their real motives and to try and infiltrate the factions, then report their findings. Is willing to pay them a decent sum upfront, plus promises lands/titles/ranks when the mission is completed.
+ **Complications**: the officer is actually an Elyrian spymaster. If discovered, there may be a trail leading to the Silver Order. Unrelated to this, if the PCs are discovered they may be fed false information on purpose to try and bring their patron in the open.
+ **Potential Connections**: there should be none since the Patron has asked the PCs to lie and to remain anonymous; but if their identity gets discovered and the Patron is a real officer, someone in the Lanterns may know him and be willing to cooperate. Otherwise, if the Patron is a spy and the PCs seem to be fine working with Elyrians, the Silver Order may have some uses for them.

## Rival Adventuring Parties
A simple way to quickly create rival adventuring parties is to take inspiration from other media and games. It’s probably a good idea to change names and other details if you are afraid that recognizing these npcs would take your players out of the game.

### Slay the Cosmological Clocktower
+ **The Ironclad**: _The remaining soldier of the Ironclads. Sold his soul to harness demonic energies._ Heavily armed and armored, has a Regeneration effect. Gains +4 Strength when bloodied[^1]. Uses the stat block for a **Veteran** (or **Gladiator**, **Champion** depending on the CR needed).
+ **The Silent**: _A deadly huntress from the foglands. Eradicates foes with daggers and poisons._ A mysterious woman covered in an ample and ragged green cloak. Wears the skull of a large goat as a mask/helmet and never speaks. Armed with a bandolier of daggers, she uses powerful poisons. Uses the stat block for a **Spy** (or **Drow Elite Warrior**, **Assassin** depending on the CR needed).
+ **The Watcher**: _A blind ascetic who has come to "Evaluate" the City. Master of the divine Stances._ a blind monk dressed in flowing purple robes that possesses a mystical sixth sense. Has blindsight 30ft, once per round when attacks, gains 2d4 temporary hit points. Uses the stat block for a **Martial Arts Adept** or any needed Tier from [Empty Hexes Monk NPCs](https://www.emptyhexes.com/monster-mondays/npc-monks).
+ **The Defect**: _Combat automaton which became self-aware. Ancient technology allows manipulation of Orbs._ Uses **Strahd's Animated Armor** stat block (increase or lower CR, HP, spells and attack damage for different CRs). Loses the Greatsword attack but gains an Ice and a Necrotic attack that mimic Shocking Bolt but with the following changes: Ice, advantage if the target is cold blooded, deals cold damage; Shadow, advantage if the target is a living creature, deals necrotic damage. Has a Ioun Stone, Protection and a Ioun Stone, Awareness floating around its head.

### Drakkest Dungeon
+ **Reynauld the Crusader**: _A mighty sword-hand anchored by a holy purpose. A zealous warrior._ Reynauld is an Illyrian who follows the Faith of the Sacred Flame, although he is not a member of the Silver Knights. He is clad in silvery plate armor adorned with scrolls bearing prayers to the Sacred Flame and wields a Greatsword. He uses the stat block for a **Cavalier** (increase or lower CR, HP, spells and attack damage for different CRs).
+ **Dismas the Highwayman**: _Elusive, evasive, persistent. Righteous traits for a rogue._ A bandit in search of redemption for his previous crimes; ex-member of the Queen’s Men. Wears furs and leathers and a bandana around his neck (raised to cover his face when he means business). Armed with a dagger and a pistol (2d6+Dex piercing damage, 3 lb. weight, Ammunition (range 30/90), Loading, makes plenty of noise). Uses the stat block for a **Spy** (or **Drow Elite Warrior**, **Assassin** depending on the CR needed).
+ **Paracelsus the Plague Doctor**: _What better laboratory than the blood-soaked battlefield?_ A surgeon and a scientist with loose morals. Dressed in heavy layers of protective material, armed with despicable vials and concoctions, their voice is muffled by a beaked mask and their identity is a mystery. Uses various tiers of [Empty Hexes Artificer NPCs](https://www.emptyhexes.com/monster-mondays/npc-artificer) depending on the CR needed.
+ **Alhazred the Occultist**: _To fight the abyss, one must know it_...a (malfeasant?) practitioner of the arcane. Has opened his mind to the folly that inhabits Drakkenheim, receiving flashes of insight and nightmarish visions. Uses various tiers of [Empty Hexes Warlock NPCs](https://www.emptyhexes.com/monster-mondays/npc-warlocks) depending on the CR needed.

### Drakkest Dungeon II
+ **Barristan the Man-at-Arms**: The raw strength of youth may be spent, but his eyes hold the secrets of a hundred campaigns. Fought with the Hooded Lantern’s precursors during the first attempts to retake Drakkenheim; he’s seen the horrors that inhabit the city and is now a broken man, a slave to alchool. Uses the **Knight** stat block (increase or lower CR, HP, spells and attack damage for different CRs).
+ **William the Houndmaster**: A lawman and his faithful beast. A bond forged by battle and bloodshed. A scraggy man accompanied by a scraggier, enormous dog. Used to be a city guard in Drakkenheim but has witnessed something terrible on the job; is now a mercenary. Uses various tiers of [Empty Hexes Ranger NPCs](https://www.emptyhexes.com/monster-mondays/npc-ranger) depending on the CR needed. The dog uses the stat block for a **Wolf** (or **Dire Wolf** or **Guardian Wolf** depending on the CR needed).
+ **Audrey the Grave Robber**: To those with the keen eye, gold gleams like a dagger's point. Unhinged and interested in everything that shines, she has the darkest, flattest gallows humor of them all - which helps when someone robs graves for a job. She was secretly a noblewoman in Drakkenheim once, but she lost everything to debt before the fall of the city. She may be a secret heiress. Uses the stat block for a **Spy** (or **Drow Elite Warrior**, **Assassin** depending on the CR needed).
+ **Sarmenti the Jester**: He will be laughing still... at the end. This enigmatic performer wears a thespian mask (half smiling, half crying) and a bright, red, old and patched buffoon costume. As his mask suggests, he has frequent mood swings, going from the highest elation to the blackest despair in the span of a few words. His lyrics are…puzzling. Uses various tiers of [Empty Hexes Bard NPCs](https://www.emptyhexes.com/monster-mondays/npc-bard) depending on the CR needed, he’s armed with are curved sickle (uses shortsword stats) and a dagger; doesn’t have a shortbow. 

### Inscrutable Towers of Eternity
+ **Edér Teylecg**: _If I'm not supposed to pet him why is he so soft?_ A broad man with straw-colored hair and a light beard, he is a veteran of the Civil War; hough people tend to dismiss him as somewhat of a simpleton due to his appearance, background, and partiality to enjoying smoking pipeweed, Edér often proves to surprisingly observant of his surroundings and rather well-articulated.  Uses the stat block for a **Veteran** (or **Gladiator**, **Champion** depending on the CR needed).
+ **Aloth Corfiser**: _It isn't a parlor trick. Besides, she doesn't take orders well._ A slender Wood elf with pale skin and straight, dark hair. He wants to join the Amethyst Academy and has an almost pathological need for control in every aspect of his life; unfortunately for him, he is possessed by a fey spirit that manifests itself as a cantankerous old woman; the fey enjoys causing mischief, especially if it’s causing Aloth to get into some troubles. Uses various tiers of [Empty Hexes Wizard NPCs](https://www.emptyhexes.com/monster-mondays/npc-wizard).
+ **Durance**: _They will use you. Cast you off when it suits them. Never speak another word to you._ An incredibly ugly man, with bulging red cheeks raked by pox scars, and a scraggly beard. He wears frayed robes with the symbol of the Sacred Flame and wields a staff enchanted with a permanent, magical flame. He used to be a disciple of the Sacred Flame, but after an unexpected betrayal he has renounced his vows and joined the Falling Fire instead. Uses various tiers of [Empty Hexes Cleric NPCs](https://www.emptyhexes.com/monster-mondays/npc-cleric) depending on the CR needed.
+ **Kana Rua**: _I have to say, it's wonderful to have someone to debate with! You'd think they'd be more welcoming of it at the lore college_...A goliath with golden skin, pointy teeth and short copper hair. Contrary to his imposing physique, Kana is soft spoken and mild mannered; he is an academic with interests in the arcane, theology and history. Uses various tiers of [Empty Hexes Bard NPCs](https://www.emptyhexes.com/monster-mondays/npc-bard) depending on the CR needed; he wields a massive long gun (2d10+Dex piercing damage, 10 lb. weight, Ammunition (range 60/120), Loading, makes plenty of noise). 

### Drakken Age
+ **Alistair**: _Nothing like a brush with death to make you... not like death much_. Grown up as a servant’s kid and trained as a squire for a local nobleman, Alistair is an imposing man with a reddish head of hairs and the shade of a beard. His demeanor is carefree, he jokes about anything and he tends to follow more than lead. He is secretly the son of a servant and a royal family member and may be a secret heir. Uses various tiers of [Empty Hexes Paladin NPCs](https://www.emptyhexes.com/monster-mondays/npc-paladin) depending on the CR needed.
+ **Morrigan**: _Change is coming to the world. Many fear change and will fight it with every fiber of their being. But sometimes, change is what they need the most. Sometimes, change is what sets them free_. Morrigan is a dark haired, slender woman; born and raised in the wilds, she is adept at using her wiles to manipulate people, but due to her isolated upbringing she is unfamiliar with some of the nuances of human interactions. She is here to see what new portents the comet has brought. Uses various tiers of [Empty Hexes Druid NPCs](https://www.emptyhexes.com/monster-mondays/npc-druid) depending on the CR needed.
+ **Leliana**: _The Church has committed many injustices. If we're going to change it, why not change the whole thing?_ Leliana is a red haired charismatic woman, daughter of a Westemari handmaiden and an Elyrian nobleman. She was raised as an acolyte in the Elyrian Church of the Sacred Flame, but her interest in knowledge above all else has clashed with the strict rules imposed by the Church. Ran away, she is now interested in what the Followers of the Falling Fire have to say. Uses various tiers of [Empty Hexes Bard NPCs](https://www.emptyhexes.com/monster-mondays/npc-bard) depending on the CR needed.
+ **Varric**: _There's power in stories, though. That's all history is: The best tales. The ones that last. Might as well be mine._ Varric is a beardless dwarf dressed in tight leathers; he is boisterous, loud and terminally ironic - and he clearly enjoys the attention and the scorn that his behavior entails. He is a raconteur and always carries a red leather clad booklet where he records his latest feats; he also cherishes his heavy crossbow, who he talks to as if “she” was alive and sentient. Uses the stat block for a **Spy** (or **Drow Elite Warrior**, **Assassin** depending on the CR needed).

[^1]: A creature is bloodied when it has lost at least half of its maximum hit points. This does not have any direct impact, but one or more effects may check for this condition.
